The Set-Up-To-Fail Syndrome

In the example scenarios posited by the researchers, do you feel that either the bosses or subordinates acted out of ill-will? Who do you feel was most at fault? If it's difficult for you to choose, why?

In my opinion, neither the bosses nor the subordinates acted out of ill-well. To me, it seems like it is a series of misunderstands as opposed to anyone purposely acting in a way that would cause problems. I do not feel like either party was at more fault than the other. It is difficult for me to choose one over the other because both sides communicated poorly with each other causing negative reactions.

However, the equal blame does not dismiss the problem. The examples given are very real and could happen easily. I think that more transparency from both the boss and the subordinate would be the first step in the right direction. While direct communication might not be easy for everyone, I believe that it would help prevent many misunderstandings and help those involved in the situation be able to be less suspicious of one another.


2. How do tech’s biggest companies compare on diversity?

A: Diversity in Tech

Did any of these numbers surprise you? What do you think contributes to the disparity between these demographics' overall workforce share and share of the tech workforce?

The numbers on diversity from this article did not surprise me. As a women, I knew that when I chose to prepare to go into the tech workforce that there were so few women involved in tech. I believe that the disparity in the overall men vs women demographics is due to the fact that the skills necessary for working in tech are ones that are often perceived, although incorrectly, as skills that cater towards men and not women, such as math and logic. Many girls do not grow up seeing women in STEM positions, so they do not identify with those jobs, preventing them from joining. Also, the high percentage of men working in tech can even be enough to keep more women from joining. Abilities aside, there is a perception of tech being a boys’ club, which can be intimidating and keep some women from getting into tech.

The lack of ethnic diversity is even worse, such as both black and hispanic men and women making up around one percent of workforce at many of the companies listed in this article. Without getting into too much social justice, minorities in the United States tend to have the odds against them in many situations. Jobs in tech tend to require some form of education, whether it be a university degree or a something less formal, such as Omaha Code School. Regardless, these things take time and money. To simply things, in the United States, racial minorities tend make less than white people. So, those who are already struggling to make ends meet cannot sacrifice their current job, while it may not be ideal, because it is all they have. I also believe that a view similar to tech being dominated men exists with tech being dominated white people, men or women. This can also be enough to keep people from breaking into the tech field as it is intimidating to be in the minority. In addition, many minorities are practically invisible in STEM positions, especially women of color, which does not given children a leader in that role to identify with and aspire to be. Having someone who looks like you to identify with can go a long ways.

B: Diversity in Leadership

Are all groups represented in management the way they are in the general tech workforce? Who is under-represented? Over-represented?

White men are over-represented. Hispanic men and black men are under-represented. Women of color are practically nonexistent. All reasons from above apply.

Think back to previous jobs you've had or jobs you've aspired to have. Did you see people you identified with as leaders in those professions? Was that important to you? Why or why not?

In previous positions I’ve been in, I have not had leaders that I have identified with. This is something that is important to me because it shows that someone who is like me is capable of success. As I mentioned before, I do think this is important for other people as well and does contribute to the lack of diversity in the tech workplace.


3. The Other Side of Diversity

Baker's essay focuses on the personal impact on being one of the few under-represented folks in tech who get through to the other end of the job pipeline. What was something that you found remarkable about her on-the-job experience?

One of the things that stuck out to me the most while reading the essay was that when Baker was having issues with another teammate saying horrible things to her, she was the one who was forced to uproot her whole life. She was the victim of the situation, and she should not have been punished for it.

How much should a new employee be expected to change to fit the mold of the industry or company they are entering?

While it can take a new employee time to adapt to the culture of a particular workplace, such as pacing, who to talk to, etc., someone should not be expected to change what they like or dislike because they do not feel included. It is not fair to isolate someone for being different, and it can cause someone to eventually dread coming into work due to perceived hostility.

4. Is Blind Hiring the Best Hiring?

Do you think blind-hiring is a sufficient solution to addressing industry biases?
To see if you can you see even a small part of both sides, also describe some of the arguments against your answer.


I think I do see the pros and cons of blind-hiring. While if blind-hiring does end up working and helping address the issue of lack of diversity in the workplace, that is good. However, I think it blindly hiring people does not actually address the issue it hand. Choosing people this way does not address the biases of those who are doing the hiring. Blind-hiring is addressing the effects of the biases people have instead of directly addressing the biases. 

How would you compare blind-hiring to a diversity-first hiring process, like affirmative action?

I think people would be more receptive to blind-hiring because like I mentioned above, it does not directly address the biases people have. As someone who is doing the hiring, you would not have to actually address any biases you might have. Instead, you can use a service like GapJumpers that glosses over the issue.

I also believe that affirmative action causes people to have to reflect more on how their actions affect others, which could be in a negative way, and that is a reason why people feel so negatively about it.